# Memory Module

This part is for building the memory function of openPilot, which is the soul of it. The memory module mainly includes the short memory, project manager, and the memory vault.

# Context Manager

This agent is used to store and manage the context. We use different logics to deal with user’s words and agents’ words.

For user’s words, we keep all of them as they are without any modification. This is useful for follow the user’s instruction.

For agents’ words, we use unique compression techniques to compress them.

Then we concatenate all info as a context, i.e.:

$$
Context=[UH_1,f_{Comp}(AH_1),UH_2,f_{Comp}(AH_2), ..., ].
$$

That efficiently use the context window.

## Agent Functions

### Agent History Compressor

Input: Agent History

Output: Compressed Agent History

This function compresses the agent's history, to efficiently use the context window.

### Output Context

This function returns the stored context.

# Memory Vault

The memory vault is just like a human’s long-term memory. This agents stores the memory of user preferences and other knowledge that are value enough to be remembered. 

When the agent is not confident about the user’s preference, the memory vault will initiate an inquiry, and record the answer in the memory graph when needed.

## Memory Graph

In order to build an efficient memory vault, we fully utilize the graph data structure. The memory graphs contains memory nodes and memory links (edges). The necessary attributes of them are defined as follows:

### Memory Node Attributes

- Content (Text): It is the main content of the memory node, which utilizes the declarative sentence to describe the memory.
- Semantic Info (Vector): It represents the semantic info of the memory content.
- Remind Frequency (float): It records how often this memory node is reminded.
- Last updated timestamp: It is the timestamp when the memory node is updated last time. It reflects how fresh is the memory.
- …

### Memory Link Attributes

- Relevance (float): It reflects how related are two memory nodes.

## Agent Functions

### Basic Modification Functions

For example, add node, add edge…

### Remind Function

Given a query, this function search related memory content.

Input: query

Output: related memory content

### Confidence Evaluating Function

Given a query, this function use the current memory vault to evaluate how confident that the user’s preference is ensured.

Input: query

Output: (confidence score, user preference answer)

# Project Manager

This agent is responsible for managing the project context, which includes extracting the project info into files, and find the project context when needed.

This agent manage the project by writing a file (called sketch.json) in each directory of the project, and maintain them when there are file or directory changes. Here is an example: assume we have a project directory like:

- Dir 1
- Dir 2
    - File 1
    - File 2

We should maintain sketch files like:

- sketch.json
- Dir 1
    - sketch.json
- Dir 2
    - sketch.json
    - File 1
    - File 2

So what is included in sketch.json? There is a dict composed of the following key-value pairs:

$$
filename:EV_{func}
$$

where filename is standard, and $EV_{func}$ is the embedding vector of the file function. In this way, agents can easily find related files by checking the sketch file.

## Agent Functions

### Update Function

This function updates the corresponding sketch file when a related file is modified.

Input: the path of the modified file

Output: None (directly modify the sketch.json)

- To the best efficiency, when a file is modified, this function finds the dir the file belongs, and look up in the corresponding sketch.json, then using the key to accurately and easily find the function description of the file. Then we can easily modify it, or remove it from the sketch.json.

### Search Function

This function takes queries and output related file paths.

Input: query

Output: file paths

- When a query comes in, we calculate the distance between embedding vectors to find the related files. The threshold can be adjusted to achieve the best trade-off.

# Virtual Environment Manager

This agent is responsible for managing the virtual environment of the project. We put it under the memory module cause the virtual environment should also be a part of the memory.

## Agent Functions

### Environment Creator

This function just creates a virtual environment for the current project.

### Packet Installer

Input: packet names

Output: bash install commands

### Get Environment Context

This function returns the packages of the current environment.